# The Transition to Cloud Services and The Value It Offers
In this document, I take the time to explain two articles regarding the future of the security of cloud data services such as Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, and Microsoft Azure. One article argues about how in their current form, cloud services can be detrimental to the future, especially in regards to data security, while the other article takes a more positive approach to the concept, arguing that there just needs to be a more proactive approach to cloud security.

## Article 1
In Carnegie Mellon's Software Engineering Institute article [12 Risks, Threats, & Vulnerabilities in Moving to the Cloud](https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/sei_blog/2018/03/12-risks-threats-vulnerabilities-in-moving-to-the-cloud.html), the author highlights the transition to cloud services by noting how the federal government has set up the cloud as a tenet of its technological infrastructure. Beginning the article, the author notes that threats and vulnerabilites involved with migrating to the cloud are always changing so the list of reasons behind the risks of cloud services are not exahaustive by any means. But at the most basic level, the author recognizes that cloud services will always have some sort of risk/vulnerability because software has vulnerabilities and people try to exploit those vulnerabilities.

Some of the risks include consumers having reduced visibility/control, compromisability of APIs, data deletion being incomplete, vendor lock in, stored data can be lost, and lack of due dilligence. When it comes to having reduced visibility and control, when a business enlists the help of a cloud service, they give up certain permissions because the infrastructure is based off of the provider. This can make it difficult for businesses to give specific requirements regarding their security concerns. Another issue is that APIs can be compromised. Because customers use a series of APIs to interact with cloud services, there can be a significant vulnerabilities in libraries that can be exploited through the interenet. There is also concerns about incomplete data deteletion -- meaning that customers cannot confirm that their data has been securly deleted and that information can be vulnerable. If you want to transfer your data to another cloud service provider, it becomes extremely difficult because some data formats or reliance on proprietary software from the cloud service provider can cause incompatibility with the new cloud service provider. This can lead to data being lost. Data can also be lost by malicious attacks or even the destruction of the physical data centers. And last but not least, a lack of due dilligence will increase the cybersecurity risk that already exists. There are ways to combat vulnerabilities, even if you can't be completely rid of them. However, that requires due dilligence, which is not common among small businesses. 

I find that I agree with many of the security risks mentioned in the article. However, this article was written in 2018 and I do feel like things may have somewhat improved. Then again, we still see cyber attacks happening on a large scale with the US Department of Homeland Security recently releasing a warning against cyberattacks that are targetting various cloud services. In fact, I think it was stated that there are MORE cyberattacks that have happened during COVID than what was there in the past. 

## Article 2
However, Geospatial World's [Significance of Cloud security on the global advent of remote working](https://www.geospatialworld.net/blogs/significance-of-cloud-security-on-the-global-advent-of-remote-working/), seems to find solutions to the problem's presented by Canegie Mellon's Software Engineering Institute. The article explains the importance of cloud computing/services in the advent of a global pandemic. Because of COVID, many companies have found that switching to cloud services makes it easier for professionals to collaborate. However, the question of data security has become more prominent than ever. The article takes the stance that cloud services provide significantly more benefits, especially in regards to data security. Note, it recognizes that many business may remain unaware of these security protocols, making it less beneficial to use cloud services if these features are not utilized.

Some of the features that users of cloud services need to focus on include enhanced data security, enhanced control on the passage of information, easier/more efficient data recovery, prevention of accidental data leaks, and cost efficiency. When it comes to data security, many people assume that the cloud will take care of the security. However, to ensure the best level of security for your data, there needs to be a robust system implemented in your enterprise, such as using a VPN or data encryption. Cloud services are great ways to get started with your business, but they're not sustainable without such added measures. Ultimately, this kind of work requires due dilligence, something the other article recognizes not a lot of people have. The one thing about cloud services is that businesses can determine access control of the data. Therefore, it makes it easier to protect data from malicious hackers. Businesses can also configure certain security mechanisms to prevent accidental data leaks. Another benefit of cloud services is data recovery. For the most part, when locally saved data is damaged from some sort of disaster (i.e. fire or water damage), cloud services provides a back up and allows for the business to keep running as usual without an interruption to their workflow. To do all of this, it obviously comes at a cost -- but according to the article, the personalization of cloud security comes at "economical prices." For small businesses and startups, cloud services provides an effective way to store and access data at an ideal cost. Therefore, there are clearly ways to combat the cybersecurity flaws of cloud services that the previous article does not necessarily address. 

In this case, I acknowledge that there are ways to work around and improve cloud security, but I think the main take away is that data, especially on cloud services, will never truly be protected. Businesses have to continually make sure they're dilligent with implementing and maintaining security protocols. The issue is that this can be confusing and quite taxing for the IT department, especially if it is a small business. However, during the course of COVID, without cloud computing, it would be almost impossible to maintain the workflow from home that's happening today.